# IT-Work
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <body>
<p><b><h1>IT Work.</h1></b></p>
 

<p>Bryce Honey from With You With Me <b>(WYWM)</b> was kind enough to give us time out of his busy schedule to allow us to Interview him as a part of our research into the work done by IT workers within the industry. Bryce described his role as that of a General Technologist, however that name doesn’t give him credit for all of the other functions or <b>“Hats”</b> that he has as a part of his role. Bryce is currently a Squad Leader within WYWM and is currently in charge of a small <b>“squad”</b> of people. This squad is currently assigned to a project that involves upgrading the Networking equipment, including switches, routers and firewall packet shapers, for the Royal Australian Navy (RAN). As the <b>“Squad Leader”</b> Bryce is in charge of managing a significant amount of the project. As well as managing some of the overall aspects of the project he is also assisting with the actual configuration of some of the new equipment as well as doing the install of said equipment.
Bryce’s “Squad Members'' aren't the only people that he interacts with as a part of his role. Bryce has to liaise with a number of other people that are involved within this project. This current project that he and his squad is working on is contracted through IBM, as such he has to liaise with the Project Co-Ordinator of IBM. He does so on a daily basis as it is Bryce’s job to organise the delivery of most materials that will be needed for this upgrade. He also has to work with another person at IBM who is their Delivery Coordinator. He also has to work with Engineers from the RAN as the end customer to ensure that all of the Ships and Buildings will be available at the appropriate times as well that all of the environmental factors, such as heat and ventilation, are accounted for before installation begins. Finally Bryce also interacts with the CEO, CFO and CTO of WYWM on a daily basis as he is in-charge of the project; he has to report back to them on the state of the project among other things, such as sticking to budget and schedules. Overall Bryce interacts with a significant amount of other people as a part of his job including, Co-workers, subordinates, contract clients, end users as well as his own employers.</p>
<p>Bryce is lucky enough that his position allows him the luxury to work from home most of the time, and the pandemic has increased this even more. However once his current project is finished the planning stages he will have to travel to the sites to implement the process of installing all of the necessary components to complete the job. Most of his collaboration and communication is done online and through software such as Microsoft Teams and other text based chat programs. However even though he is so immersed in the IT field, Bryce is a big fan of picking up the phone and talking to someone directly as he believes that sometimes information can be <b>“lost in translation”</b> and it also helps to add a personal element to the interaction. Overall Bryce can do a vast majority of his work from home, however he does need to travel at times as a requirement of his position.
When Bryce was asked about what part of his position that he finds most challenging he was very quick to answer and revealed that it is something that he has to actively work on. Being <b>“Political”</b> when talking to the client is what he struggles with the most. Mostly he struggles to tell the client that they are incorrect while still trying to remain and communicate what he is trying to get across in a professional way. Because of his past history as a serving member of the RAN he sometimes struggles to stay in the mindset of being an IT Professional as opposed to being in a defence mindset. I find it quite interesting that Customer Service aspects can be quite difficult for some IT professionals due to the high majority of IT jobs being Support type roles.
Bryce’s answers to the questions asked were highly informative and gave us a great insight into the life of an IT professional and have also given us more information on what is waiting for us once we join the industry.</p> 
  </body>
  </html>
    
